So before we look at the delegation code,
let's look briefly at the string code that we saw for the Java 8 demonstration.
So here we have our Main.java class, and that's trying to use
message.getValue, and this would've compiled previously under
Java 8, and it's not compiling now.
If I look in the String.java class,
that code is still there, and getValue is still there.
However,
if I compile this code and look at the errors, the error we see
is that the package exists in another module,
java.base.
So because the java.lang package already exists in the module,
we can't compile it into our own module here.
So in this case, we can't even get as far as compiling this code.
So let me comment this out so my project compiles, and
then let's look at our delegation code.
So this code here is exactly the same as the code that we had for Java 8.
So actually what happens when we try and run this?
So now we get a ClassCastException, the
Delegation.java line 8, which is this line here.
So what's happening now is when I called getSystemClassLoader.
Previously that was of type URLClassLoader.
Now that was undocumented and wasn't really a supported
feature, but everybody made use of this as,
in fact, we did here.
But now getSystemClassLoader just loads up something of type
ClassLoader, and I don't need that cast.
And similarly on line 14, classLoader.getParent will again just load
classLoader. Because we don't have a URLClassLoader now, I can't print out
the URL. I can just print out the classloader.
So if I run this code again and take a look at the output, we now see we load
something of type AppClassLoader and then PlatformClassLoader and then
BootstrapClassLoader. So delegation is still in place, the class loaders have
different names, and they are different types.
These are now internal types, so we don't have access to these inside our code.
These class loaders also have a name. So if I printout classLoader.getName here
and run this again, we now see we have the app class loader,
the platform class loader, and our own Bootstrap class loader,
which is the same as before.
So I've said that on Java 11, there's no rt.jar.
Instead,
everything's loaded from modules. And if I look at my JDK 11
installation here on my Mac and look in the Home folder,
there's a jmods folder. And if I look in here,
here are all the Java modules. There's things like java.base,
java.sql, and so on and so forth.
If you want to list these modules rather than go and hunt for
them, if I change to a terminal window, I can run Java ‑‑list modules.
And there it lists the modules.
And if I scroll up here,
we'll see things like again java.base and java.sql.
And if I change into that directory,
so I'm in my Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/openjdk/Contents/Home/jmods
directory, I can list the content of one of those modules.
There's a tool called jmods, which on my machine is in Contents/Home/bin.
So if I go up one level and do bin/jmod and then called list,
I can list the contents of one of these modules, so here java.sql.jmods,
and it shows me the classes within the module.
So these classes are now within modules rather than in rt.jar,
and these classes are loaded either by the platform class loader or the bootstrap class loader.